---
layout: post
title: Review 2019
tags: Life
---

Time to put together all the pieces from last year! 2019 marked the first (full) year of my career and bred a monotonous lifestyle.

This article reviews all events from 2018.10.29 to 2019.12.31 and the Guangzhou Trip.

### Work

ups:

- Quick transition from a carefree student to a full-time employee. Adjusted pretty quickly to business thinking pattern and top-down design methodology
- Worked on a riveting subject. Expanded my skillset to Groovy, Lua, Flink, Redis and many other state-of-the-art techniques
- Satisfactory results. Replaced the old strategy-based anomaly detection hub with my machine-learning-based system with convincing performance

oops:

- Missed a good chance to boost the status of my system due to lack of determination
- Did not set up connections with fellow programmers and data scientists in the industry

**Rating: 8/10**

### Lifestyle

ups:

- No major health hazards
- Played football once per week, among some other regular sport activities. Much better fitness and athleticism than 1 year ago
- On a balanced diet. No excessive eating, drinking or snacking (except when dating). As a result, my weight is well under control

oops:

- Average sleep time = 1:30 am. That's waaaaay too late
- Average sleep length = 7:15 h. That's not enough
- Average 1:30 h on gaming and random browsing per day. That's too much

**Rating: 6.5/10**

### Family

ups:

- Sustaining empathy with parents bar minor disagreements
- Holiday in Nanning with family was cool
- Overall smooth with GF. Both parties are supportive
- Holiday in Guangzhou with GF was cool (and full)

oops:

- No substantial progress on life decisions with GF

**Rating 9/10**

### Skills

ups:

- Texas poker. Requires some statistics background with strong discipline. Benefitted a lot from playing

oops:

- Did not practice piano regularly
- Never really started learning Ableton and Launchpad
- Still can't play ukelele

**Rating 5/10**

### Contents

ups:

- Picked up (again) classical music
- Wrote mini-reviews for > 10 movies. Adapted to an analytical perspective when watching movies

oops:

- Reading is almost nonexistent
- Vinyl devices were scarcely used

**Rating 6/10**

### _Best of the Year_ Awards

- Movie:
	- Watched in 2019: [*Burning*](https://movie.douban.com/subject/26842702/) by Chang-dong Lee
	- Produced in 2019: [*Knives Out*](https://movie.douban.com/subject/30318116/) by Rian Johnson
- TV: [*Criminal Minds*](https://movie.douban.com/subject/1427816/) (2005-2010) by CBS
- Album: [*Lagrange Points*](https://music.douban.com/subject/3068216/) (2008) by Mooncake
- Game: [*What remains of Edith Finch*](https://www.douban.com/game/26411799/) (2017)
- Match: Ajax - Tottenham, 2018-19 Champions League semifinal 2nd leg
- Personality: 武磊

### Stats

- Cities: 3 (Hangzhou, Nanning, Guangzhou)
- Number of movies watched: 42
- Number of TV series watched (in seasons): 8
- Hours of music played: 368 hours
- Most played music artist: Coldplay (17 hours)
- Most played song: *Team* by Lorde
- Most played video game: *FIFA 19* (325 hours)
- Most visited website: stackoverflow.com

### 2020 Checklists

- Get promoted **#work**
- Set up connections with fellow ML scientists, maybe via *String project* **#work**
- Average sleep time before 0:15 am **#lifestyle**
- Average sleep length = 8h **#lifestyle**
- The only new game I should commit to is _Cyberpunk 2077_ **#lifestyle**
- Average gaming time < 7h per week **#lifestyle**
- Make substantial progress on life decisions with GF **#lifestyle**
- Achieve beginner level with ukelele **#skills**
- Achieve beginner level with Ableton and Launchpad **#skills**
- Read and write reviews for >= 6 books **#contents**
- Set up a personal news feed of reliable and intuitive resources **#contents**
- Reduce random browsing Hupu and Weibo. Reduce intake of unsystematic information **#contents**

### 2020 Keywords

- System
- Long term
- Connection
- Girlfriend
- Sleep
