---
layout: post
title: 2020 Midterm Summary
tags: Life
---

(Almost) 6 months have passed in 2020 and I want to review all the plans and resolutions proposed at the start of 2020.

1. Get promoted
	
	> Nominated. Finished the oral defense. Waiting for the result. 9/10

2. Set up connections with fellow ML scientists, maybe via *String project*

	> Not too much progress on this due to the coronavirus outbreak. Maybe in the second half of the year. 2/10

3. Average sleep time before 0:15 am

	> Not yet. No. 0/10

4. Average sleep length = 8h

	> Same. No. 0/10

5. The only new game I should commit to is _Cyberpunk 2077_

	> Get started with _Arknights_. 0/10

6. Average gaming time < 7h per week

	> Significantly lower than last year, but not enough. Currently 10h per week or something. 5/10

7. Make substantial progress on life decisions with GF

	> Already dined with parents. 9/10

8. Achieve beginner level with ukelele

	> Not yet. 0/10

9. Achieve beginner level with Ableton and Launchpad

	> Coming soon (TM). 1/10

10. Read and write reviews for >= 6 books

	> 1/6 Done. The chance to pass the threshold is slim.

11. Set up a personal news feed of reliable and intuitive resources

	> Not yet but has cut unreliable feeds significantly. 4/10

12. Reduce random browsing Hupu and Weibo. Reduce intake of unsystematic information

	> As indicated above, the progress is great so far. 8/10

There are some other checklists that I wanted to add for the rest of 2020:

- Self enhancement with >= 2h per week of literature reading about anomaly detection and ML pipeline system **work**
- Resume regular sports after moving to EFC **lifestyle**
