---
layout: post
title: Review 2020
tags: Life
---

Time to put together all the pieces from last year! Due to the covid outbreak, 2020 marked the most turbulent year that the world has witnessed since I was born. Nevertheless, I spent more time in my little spiritual sanctuary and enjoyed progress both in life and work.

This time, the review will be composed of two parts. The first part, in English, is here and will regress a bit to statistics only compared to its counterpart of 2019. The second part, in Chinese, will cover subjective matters that I want to discuss.

### _... of the Year_ Awards

- Movie: [*1917*](https://movie.douban.com/subject/30252495/) (2019) by Sam Mendes
- TV: [*All or Nothing: Tottenham Hotspur*](https://movie.douban.com/subject/34863569/) (2020) by Amazon
- Album: [*冀西南林路行*](https://music.douban.com/subject/35292992/) (2020) by 万能青年旅店
- Match: Bayern 8:2 Barcelona, 2019-20 Champions League quarter-final
- Personality: 钟南山
- Website: geoguessr.com

### Stats

- Cities: 5 (+2; Hangzhou, Beijing, Xiamen, Shanghai, Xi'an)
- Number of movies watched: 16 (-22)
- Number of TV series watched (in seasons): 12 (+4)
- Hours of music played: 317 hours (-51)
- Most played music artist: Odesza (38 hours)
- Most played song: *Piano Sonata No.1 Fantasie in C* by Schumann
- Hours of PS4 played: 87 hours (-270)
- Most played video game: *FIFA 21* (54 hours)

### Review of 2020 Checklists

- Get promoted **#work**

 > Bingo. 10/10

- Set up connections with fellow ML scientists, maybe via *String project* **#work**

 > Not too much progress due to covid outbreak. 4/10

- Average sleep time before 0:15 am **#lifestyle**

 > Hell no. 0/10

- Average sleep length = 8h **#lifestyle**

 > 30 min short of the goal. 4/10

- The only new game I should commit to is _Cyberpunk 2077_ **#lifestyle**

 > No punk, but played quite a few of others. 3/10

- Average gaming time < 7h per week **#lifestyle**

 > Almost there in the first half of the year, but quickly deteriorated after work goals have been archived. 5/10

- Make substantial progress on life decisions with GF **#lifestyle**

 > Bingo. 10/10

- Achieve beginner level with ukelele **#skills**

 > Coming soon. 0/10

- Achieve beginner level with Ableton and Launchpad **#skills**

 > Coming soon. 0/10

- Read and write reviews for >= 6 books **#contents**

 > Finished 4 and started 2. A good start to re-establish reading habit. 8/10

- Set up a personal news feed of reliable and intuitive resources **#contents**

 > Cancelled. A curated personal news feed needs lots of time and effort, which seems to be unrealistic. Working on a better idea.

- Reduce random browsing Hupu and Weibo. Reduce intake of unsystematic information **#contents**

 > No more weibo, but 340 hours at Hupu say hi. 4/10
